B. Ramamohan
  Sr Software Test Engineer		
  Email    : ramuautomotive87@gmail.com 
  Ph. No  : +91-9985256939
 SUMMARY:
 
8+ years of Manual & Automation testing experience in Mobile, Infotainment & embedded wireless domain.
Vast domain experience such as Platform, Wireless, Multimedia, Power and performance
Hands on experience with  Python & perl in automating test cases, log parsing & report generation
Hands on experience with  Selenium and Appium automation tools.
Have hands on experience with TestNG and MAVEN (build management) tools.
Key expertise in Stability tests using manual & automation.
Better exposure to WLAN & Bluetooth technology (A2DP, AVRCP, HFP, HSP, OPP, FTP and PAN)
Better understanding and experience with most of mobile OS such as Android & QnX
Experience in all kinds of testing such as Unit, Sanity, System, Stability, Concurrency, Performance, Power, and User Acceptance.
Good exposure and hands on with log analysis and triaging of issues. 
Experience in scripting auto trigger test execution, log collection, re-run failures and update database with results to a Web interface
Worked on Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Defect Tracking and Bug Verification.
Having knowledge & experience in telecom such as GSM/CDMA/UMTS and RF(GPS)
Familiar & hands on with traditional & Agile methodology.

  EMPLOYMENT DETAILS:
Senior software Test Engineer @ Innominds, Hyderabad – june 2016 to till date
Senior software Test Engineer @ Sasken Communication, Hyderabad – April  2013 to june 2016
Senior software Test Engineer @ Votary Tech, Hyderabad - June 2011 to April 2013  
Wireless test Engineer @ IWS, Hyderabad from Dec 2008 to Jan 2011.

 EDUCATION DETAILS:
Post Graduation Diploma in Project management from Hyderabad central University.
Post-Graduation Diploma in Telecommunication from Hyderabad central University
B Tech in Electronics and communication, SKTRM College affiliated to JNTU 2004-008. 

    ACHIEVEMENTS:
Star performance award for outstanding contribution in validating Android SDK on Qualcomm SOC’s
BRavo award for outstanding contribution for the 2011 year
Got 4 spot awards for developing the new tools for ODC projects.
Got 8th Rank In All India Competitive Exams in “NIIT Education" At Hyderabad On 2008.

  Technical Skills:
Programming Language	C, Perl,python
Operating System	Windows, Android(GB to N)
Wireless Technologies	Expertise in Bluetooth, Knowledge on  WCDMA and GSM
Qualcomm Tools	Qpst, Qxdm, Jtag, Atmel 
Networking Tools	MapInfo,MCom,TEMS investigation8.0,GenxProbe1.53,Agilent14.1.12
Third party tools	Appium,Maven,TestNg,IVT Bluesoleil softwareV2.6,V8.0,PTS Sniffer(BT),Garmin GPS, Prism, Jira, 

PROJECTS:

Project-1:     CD Automation test framework

Organization              : Innominds  Pvt Ltd
Role                              : Senior Test Engineer
Duration                      : june 2016 to till date
Scripting Language   :  Python,
Frameworks used     : MAVEN, Jenkins,TESTNG
Automation Tools     : Selenium,Appium
Description:     Responsible for design, development, and enhancement UI based test automation framework using Appium & selenium automation frameworks. Implemented environment verification, build verification, smoke and regression automation test suites for android upgrade project. Appium is used for UI based testing.

Responsibilities: 
Created and executed detailed QA test plans
Developed an effective automated test script design with objectives of maximizing the re usability and their maintenance. 
Assisted with the research on industry trends and enhancements to meet new technology and business demands.
Provided automation training to manual testers and offshore resources.
Worked with cross-functional engineering teams to resolve integration issues.
Reported bugs to development team in an Agile work flow
Provided automation training to manual testers and offshore resources
Provided regression test cases based on the various customer requests.
Involved in regular daily/weekly/monthly sync up meeting with counter parts


Project-2:      Qualcomm Automotive solutions

Organization      : Qualcomm India Pvt Ltd
Role                      : Senior Test Engineer
Duration             : Feb 2015 to march 2016
Responsibilities: 
Involved in testing  all Infotainment test scenarios like BT connectivity,GPS navigation,vehicle cameras and Multimedia features.
Involved in testing CAN (Vehicle Networking), HMI and Multiple displays. 
Involved in CTS, Power, performance & Concurrency testing.
Involved Stability tests on Qualcomm Automotive  chipset on Android Operating systems(Lolipop & Marshmallow)
Involved in the development of scripts required for monkey testing, Burnout test and Involved in S1- log analysis and reporting the issue to the concerned team 
Created and executed detailed QA test plans.
Managed bug tracking and provide informative updates as requested
Responsible for publishing daily, weekly and monthly reports to program & dev managements.
Involved in regular daily/weekly/monthly sync up meeting with counter parts


Project-3:     System-Stability Monkey testing on Qualcomm chipsets 

Organization       : Qualcomm India Pvt Ltd
Role                      : Senior Test Engineer
Duration              : June 2011 to Feb2015

Responsibilities: 

Involved testing On Android Wearables.
Involved in monkey testing on various Qualcomm SOC’s ( 8064,8x50A, 8660, 8x55, 7x27A, 8x25,8960) using Android Operating systems(Jelly bean, Ice cream sandwich, Honey comb & Gingerbread)
Involved in the development of scripts required for monkey testing especially in MWT(monkey web tool)
Involved in S1- log analysis and reporting the issue to the concerned team 
Involved in automating LP tool in MWT
involved in using development tools (JTAG, QXDM, QPST) and testing tools (ADB, DDMS)
Finding Bugs, analyzing and Interacting with development team for raising change requests (CR) for the same.
Responsible for publishing Daily, weekly and monthly reports to program & dev managements.
Involved in regular daily/weekly/monthly sync up meeting with counter parts
Accountable for reporting the results to Client on time, via delivering the deliverables to client on a daily basis.

Project 4.Build restricted Access  Automation tool for ODC Team.

Organisation      : Qualcomm India Pvt.Ltd
Role                     : Test Engineer

Description: Build restricted Access is a tool that will copy the required files for testing team, required files for crash analysis and also it creates normal build structure. For ODC team Qualcomm won’t provide Access for all build servers, so they will have access only for certain servers. In general each build requires 50 to 60Gb size. Using this tool we can reduce the size to 4 to 5Gb.
.
Roles and Responsibilities
Developed Perl script for BRA Tool.
Made use of All Qualcomm chipsets builds
Automation of build loading using PERL scripting language.
Performed Validation.

Project-5. FOTA Update From kitkat to L(Android OS) testing on Qualcomm chipsets

Organisation      : Qualcomm India Pvt.Ltd
Role                     : Test Engineer
Description: Involved in FOTA testing on various Qualcomm SOC’s ( 8939, 8916) using Android Operating systems(From kitkat to L upgrade )


Responsibilities:
Need to perform Sanity test Before FOTA update
Upgrade the device through SD card or from internal memory.
Need to perform Sanity test After FOTA update
Need to compare the results before FOTA update and after FOTA update
Need to raise CR’s  for issues  

Project-6:     Bluetooth Profile and GPS testing on Qualcomm chipsets 

Organisation      : Qualcomm India Pvt.Ltd
Role                     : Test Engineer
Description:  In this project GPS, Bluetooth audio profiles and OBEX profiles are integrated and tested incrementally in the mobile handset.

Audio Profiles tested here are A2DP, AVRCP, HFP and HSP.
OBEX profiles tested here are FTP and OPP.

Responsibilities:
Write test cases for all these profiles.
Execute the test cases.
Report the issues found during test execution
Reproduce the issues requested by development team.
Updating test results to the lead.
Retesting the test cases after bug fix.
IOT testing with different commercial devices like mobile phones, Headsets PC stacks.

Project-7:    Analyzing the Radio parameters 			

Duration      : 2.1 Years 
Role              : RF Test Engineer

Description :  This project is about testing  radio signal strength(Rx-level),handovers(soft and hard handovers), calldrops,signal quality(Rx-quality) of a network and also analyzing the TCH blocking ,SDCCH blocking, handover success rate.

Responsibilities:
Worked for varies operators Vodafone, Bsnl, Tatadocomo ,Aircel and Uninor,  Co-ordination of drive test teams and reporting to customer.
Performed drive test with GENEX PROBE 1.53,2.3(GSM),  and recommending necessary changes to ensure  optimized site performance.
ANALYSING & rectifying neighbor discrepancies, non-symmetrical Neighbour, adjacent, Co-BISC, Co- CH and Adj-CH, neighbours.
Analyzing drive test data using MAPINFO  and GENEX ASSISTANT
New sites drive, physical optimization, benchmarking drive with other operators.
Analyze data and propose necessary recommendations on RF parameters changes, new feature activation (congestion relief), frequency re-tunes, coverage enhancements, neighbor changes and capacity upgrades. These changes were done to improve the network KPIs such as coverage, Drop call rates, SDCCH drop rates and capacity.
Preparing reports and presenting it to the customer
               
  PERSONAL QUALITIES:

Ability to adapt to any circumstances.
Comprehensive problem solving abilities
Willing to learn, can adapt new technology in a very short period of time.
Enjoy new challenges and willing to take on extra responsibilities to get work done.
To work under pressure of Deadlines.
